# Mapping of long stretches of highly conserved sequences in over 6 million SARS-CoV-2 genomes

The necessity to identify new mutations and variants of concern (VOC) is well-recognized for SARS-CoV-2. Nonetheless, the potential benefits of identifying conserved stretches and its implications on our current understanding of virus biology remain largely unexplored. We used data from the COVID-19 CG database to identify 11 conserved stretches in over 6.3 million SARS-CoV-2 genomes including all the major VOCs (i.e., alpha, beta, gamma, delta and omicron). Each conserved stretch is ≥100 nucleotides in length with ≥ 99.9% conservation at each nucleotide position.   Interestingly, 6 of the 8 conserved stretches in ORF1a/b overlapped significantly with well-folded experimentally verified RNA secondary structures.  Despite high mutation rates in the S gene, two of the conserved stretches mapped to regions within the S2 subunit that undergo dynamic structural rearrangements during viral fusion.   In addition, the conserved stretches were significantly depleted for zinc-finger antiviral protein (ZAP) binding sites, which facilitate recognition and degradation of viral RNA.  These highly conserved stretches in the SARS-CoV-2 genome were poorly conserved at the nucleotide level among closely related β-coronaviruses, thus representing ideal targets for highly specific and discriminatory diagnostic assays.  Our findings highlight the role of structural constraints at both RNA and protein levels that contribute to sequence conservation of specific genomic regions in SARS-CoV-2. The conserved stretches identified in this work represent virtually mutation-free regions in the SARS-CoV-2 genome that overlap with structured RNA elements and are good targets for diagnostic assays and the development of antiviral therapy.
